
In 1978, the airline industry, which had been heavily regulated and controlled, was liberated from government oversight and released to the vagaries of the marketplace. As a result, the industry underwent significant change during the 1980s and 1990s. At the same time, several major air disasters took place, including the 1996 Valujet and TWA 800 aircraft crashes. In response to the post-accident events, Congress passed the Aviation Disaster Family Assistance Act (ADFAA) the same year. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, wrought further change on the airline industry. Just weeks after the attacks, President george w. bush signed the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act (ATSSSA). According to a statement released by President Bush on September 22, 2001, the act was intended to ensure passenger safety and to "assure the safety and immediate stability of the nation's commercial airline system." It also created financial turmoil for nearly all the major carriers. What followed was a period of evolution and metamorphosis that changed the nature of flying forever.


airlines industry is a service industry
US airlines are either - Privately owned or publicly owned

Airlines rank is determined by the revenue

Categories of airlines by US govt-
Regional, national, major

Major- $1billion annually. e.g Northwest, Southwest, Alaska.
National- $100million to $1 billion anually. eg Aloha, Evergreen.
regional- $20 million to $100 million.

Employees
Line personnel, operations, maintenance, sales and marketting\

Price deciding factors-
Purcahse date, Class, destination, fuel cost, competitors fair,
special factors























AIRLINE DOMAIN 
It is relatively easy to develop applications in any and every industry domain. But
a company that primarily focuses its development efforts to only one industry
develops expertise in the domain. Innovative Binaries has been pioneered by
people from the Aviation Industry and continues to have its ties with Airline
Maintenance Engineers, Airline pilots and dispatch crew to do logical testing of 
applications to understand practical problems involved in the usage of well-
engineered applications. Innovative Binaries has been in existence for four years
now and has several thousand man-hours of experience in this short span.
Specific Applications (not exhaustive):
Aircraft Maintenance Crew/Flight Scheduling Inventory Management
Sales & Purchase Flight Dispatch Bulletin Tracking
Market?? •? Product? •? Customer? •? Compe;;on? •? Companies? •? Economics?? –?Revenues? –?Cost? •? Externals?
Global?Market? •? 2000?Airlines?opera;ng?more?than?23,000? aircraG,?providing?service?to?over?3700?airports.?? •? In?2006,?there?were?28?million?scheduled??ight? departures?and?carried?over?2?billion?passengers?? •? Growth?of?world?air?travel?has?averaged? approximately?5%?per?year?over?the?past?30?years? •? Annual?growth?in?air?travel?has?been?about?twice? the?annual?growth?in?GDP? •? Expected?to?double?over?next?10?–?15?years?
US?Market? •? 100?cer;?cated?passenger?airlines?operate?over? 11?million??ight?departures?per?year? •? Carry?over?one-third?of?the?world’s?total?air?tra?c? •? 745?million?passengers?in?2006? •? $160?billion?in?total?revenues? •? 545,000?employees?and?over?8,000?aircraG? opera;ng?31,000??ights?per?day? •? Commercial?avia;on?contributes?8?percent?of?the? US?Gross?Domes;c?Product,?according?to?recent? es;mates?
Market?
•? US?Commercial? •? Cost?–?Safety?–?Growth?? •? Consolida;on? –?Con;nental?–?United?(2010)?–?Largest?Airline? –?Delta?–?Northwest?(2009)?–?2nd? –?Southwest?–?AirTran?
Products? •? The?Good,?the?Bad,?and?the?Ugly? •? Other? –?Adver;sing?
Here is the complete list of the top 10 airlines for 2018:
Singapore Airlines.
Virgin Australia.
Virgin Atlantic.
Etihad Airways.
All Nippon Airways.
Korean Air.
Cathay Pacific.
Japan Airlines.
WHY SINGAPORE AIRLINES IS BEST 
Few things put off travellers more than seeing that a flight leaves in the middle of the night or so early in the morning that’s it’s difficult to get to the airport. Convenient departure and arrival times are a big reason why Singapore Airlines scored so highly with Wanderlust readers. 
The airline has four daily flights from London to Sydney during the summer, with departures at 0925, 1125, 2050 and 2205, all scheduled to be either easy to get to in the morning or after work in the evenings. There are also five weekly flights from Manchester. 
Flying via Changi Airport in Singapore, the London-Sydney flights are also the fastest route from the UK to Sydney, taking just 21 hours and 40 minutes. For such a long journey from the UK to Australia, keeping that flight time down to a minimum is a popular call.
With morning arrival times into Australia, passengers can get as much sleep as possible. “It’s good for the body,” says Sheldon Hee, General Manager UK & Ireland at Singapore Airlines. “It allows you to rest comfortably and arrive at a convenient time.”
   Being in an aeroplane 10,000 metres up in the sky does make it difficult to nip out for a bite to eat, so it’s great when an airline gets the onboard meals right. An International Culinary Panel comprising eight world-renowned chefs work to create the onboard menus, including Australia’s acclaimed Matt Moran, Suzanne Goin from the United States, and other leading chefs from Asia and Europe. 
The result is an international menu that's regularly adding new ideas and flavours. “We’re currently designing a new menu, writing, testing and tasting recipes," says Australian chef Matt Moran, who's sat on the International Culinary Panel of Singapore Airlines for 14 years. "A great deal of thought goes into the planning.
"It’s a bit of a science, as there are specific conditions 40,000ft up that need to be considered," Moran explains. "The senses of a passenger are altered by altitude. We also need to consider the best way to execute, store and serve the dishes in a way in which quality is never compromised and passengers are delivered flavoursome, delicious meals. The process is very different to menu planning in my restaurants and I love the challenge of it. It’s exciting." 
   
